Oh boy I know that was a long section and a long section without that much coat.
I know you want to do exercises and get things going.
And I promise you with the upcoming sections we're gonna do more and more coding.
But I wanted for us to build this foundation so that we understand how the language works internally.
In this section we learned about the JavaScript engine how we can send a javascript file and it runs
it all through these steps including an interpreter and a compiler a git compiler to send us optimized
code that we can run on our machines and then we also learned about these two very important concepts
that we're going to take with us throughout the rest of the section call stack and memory heap and how
these are used to run and execute our code and more importantly we focused on the call stack something
that we're going to see over and over throughout the next couple of videos and sections where we use
the stack to keep track of where we are in our program and this concept is going to be very important
when we start to understand javascript deeply.
We also learn about the idea of a single threaded model that is javascript is a single threaded language
one call stack one memory heap.
We learned about the limitations of that but also the beauty and simplicity because we can use the javascript
runtime to have threads in the background that run it for us whether it is on the browser or outside
of the browser using something like No J Yes.
And we also learned about a very common interview question where we would do something like this and
the interviewer asked you Hey what do you think is going to happen here.
And we should know by now why this is why three is printed before 1 and 2.
So this is your final test to finish off the section.
What happens if I run this again but this time I'm going to run this in one second and this one in just
10 milliseconds.
All right you ready.
Let's see okay.
Is that what you expected.
Did you get that right.
Good.
If you did move on to the next section but I have one last question for you and this is gonna be a little
tough so let's change this back to zero.
And this over here we're gonna change it instead to a promise.
Dot resolve and it's just going to resolve to Hi and we're just going to dot then console log
and by the way if you're not used to promises I've added some videos on promises in the appendix so
you can go check those out.
This is something that we're going to learn later on in the course.
What do you think is going to happen here.
We have a set time out then a promise that resolves right away and console logs to and then console
log 3 Take your guess.
Wait a second because I'm going to press enter and let's see what happens.
Is that what you expected.
Three is a crowd.
Makes sense.
But why did two get printed before one.
Does that make sense to you.
Because based on what I just tell you it doesn't.
Right.
How did promise get in before.
One is the loneliest number.
Mm hmm.
Well in order for us to understand that and to leave you on a cliffhanger.
This is something we're going to tackle in the asynchronous part of the course but the thing is before
we get to that we have to really understand some of the more fundamental concepts of Javascript.
I know I'm keeping you in suspense.
You can jump to the asynchronous part of this course if you're really curious but I suggest that you
wait so that we learn about the core javascript concepts before we see what's happening here.
For now take a break and I hope to see you in the next section.
Bye bye.